About IA-GAANN
--------------

Certain risks of large-scale critical networked systems have gained
widespread recognition, e.g., cascading failures of power systems. The
number, speed, and sophistication of attacks on networked systems are
increasing dramatically, necessitating urgent action towards improved
methods and techniques of assuring and maintaining information
integrity, 24x7 availability, and system reliability. Impetus for
addressing this need is provided by the August 2007 report of the
President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, which
highlights the urgency of significant efforts to improve the
understanding, correctness, security, and information assurance of
critical infrastructures. "Securing cyberspace" and "Restoration and
improvement of urban infrastructure" are two of the fourteen Grand
Challenges for Engineering identified by the National Academy of
Engineering. Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP), which spans these
two challenges, is vital to industry, government, and society as a
whole. President Obama's Strategy for American Innovation further
underscores this urgency of CIP by calling for investments in "Building
a leading physical infrastructure" and "Developing an advanced
information technology ecosystem," as building blocks for American
Innovation.<br/>

Our primary objective for this GAANN program is to increase the number
of US citizens, including those from under-represented groups, who will
pursue teaching and research careers in information and system assurance
of critical infrastructure, an area of urgent national need. This area
is also the thrust of Missouri S&T's certification by the National
Security Agency as a Center of Academic Excellence in Information
Assurance Research and Education, uniquely positioning the team for this
effort. The GAANN program will establish a commonality among critical
infrastructures for assurance purposes, using commodity flow as a
fundamental concept. Conceptually, both information and actual physical
material flow are commodities; flow provides an overarching rubric, so
that information assurance for infrastructure systems can be analysed in
a consistent, structured, and unified way - a true systems engineering
approach.<br/>

This doctoral program brings together a truly interdisciplinary team of
faculty, where diverse talents from the computing area are complemented
by practical domain knowledge of specific critical infrastructure
systems, including the power grid, the ground transportation
infrastructure, and water distribution networks. Missouri S&T is
uniquely positioned for conducting this program, with a long tradition
of interdisciplinary research, and several research centers in
possession of unique facilities for empirical studies that investigate
the interplay between a physical infrastructure and its cyber control
and communication.
